Clarify the `package_dir` configuration (#3358)
pypa/setuptools: docs/references/keywords.rst

.. _keyword/package_dir:

``package_dir``

>     A dictionary that maps package names (as the developer wishes they would be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A dictionary that maps package names (as they will be
```

    imported by the end-users) into directory paths (that actually exist in the

>     project's source tree). This configuration can be used with 2 main purposes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    project's source tree). This configuration can be used for two main purposes:
```

>     project's source tree). This configuration can be used with 2 main purposes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    project's source tree). This configuration method has two main purposes:
```
I'm not totally sure about saying 'method', but I think this is clearer.

Author: Let's just remove it all togheter:

```suggestion
    project's source tree). This configuration has two main purposes:
```

>     project's source tree). This configuration can be used with 2 main objectives:

Author: ```suggestion
    project's source tree). This configuration can be used with 2 main purposes:
```

    1. To effectively "rename" paths when building your package.
       For example, ``package_dir={"mypkg": "dir1/dir2/code_for_mypkg"}``
       will instruct setuptools to copy the ``dir1/dir2/code_for_mypkg/...`` files
       as ``mypkg/...`` when building the final :term:`wheel distribution <Wheel>`.

       .. attention::
          While it is *possible* to specify arbitrary mappings, developers are
          **STRONGLY ADVISED AGAINST** that. They should try as much as possible

>           to keep the directory names and hierarchy identical to as they would

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          to keep the directory names and hierarchy identical to the way they will
```

>           to keep the directory names and structure identical to as they would

Author: ```suggestion
          to keep the directory names and hierarchy identical to as they would
```

          appear in the final wheel, only deviating when absolutely necessary.

>     2. To indicate that the code corresponding to a package implementation is
>        entirely contained inside a specific directory.

Author: ```suggestion
    2. To indicate that the relevant code is entirely contained inside
       a specific directory (instead of directly placed under the project's root).
```

       In this case, a special key is required (the empty string, ``""``),
       for example: ``package_dir={"": "<name of the container directory>"}``.
       All the directories inside the container directory will be copied
       directly into the final :term:`wheel distribution <Wheel>`, but the
       container directory itself will not.

>        This practice is very common in the community, to help separating the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       This practice is very common in the community to help separate the
```

       package implementation from auxiliary files (e.g. CI configuration files),

>        and is referred as :ref:`src-layout`, because traditionally the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       and is referred to as :ref:`src-layout`, because traditionally the
```
Would "commonly" be better than "traditionally"?

Author: I could go with both...

Naming the directory `src` is part of a long-established practice, so that is why I used the "traditionally" word here (is it wrong to call this long-established practice a tradition?)

Reviewer: I see you've already made the change; but in any case, 'traditionally' carries the connotation that it might not be current or recommended practice, hence my suggestion that 'commonly' is better.

Author: Thank you very much @cdfarrow, it is always nice to have this kind of feedback. It helps a lot (I am not a native speaker...)

Reviewer: I'm glad to be able to contribute a little. Thanks for your quick response to my questions, and for adding the clarifications. (I've also learned a bit more about using Github in the process :-) )

>        and is referred to as :ref:`src-layout`, because traditionally the
>        container directory is named ``src``.

Author: ```suggestion
       and is referred to as :ref:`src-layout`, because the container
       directory is commonly named ``src``.
```

    All paths in ``package_dir`` must be relative to the project root directory

>     and use a forward slash (``/``) as path separator (regardless of the
>     operating system).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    and use a forward slash (``/``) as path separator regardless of the
    operating system.
```

    .. tip::
       When using :doc:`package discovery </userguide/package_discovery>`
       together with :doc:`setup.cfg </userguide/declarative_config>` or
       :doc:`pyproject.toml </userguide/pyproject_config>`, it is very likely
       that you don't need to specify a value for ``package_dir``.  Please have

>        a look on the definitions of :ref:`src-layout` and :ref:`flat-layout` to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       a look at the definitions of :ref:`src-layout` and :ref:`flat-layout` to
```
